---
layout: page
---

These ten rules are based on my experience at
[DataCamp](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/daveyalba/datacamp-sexual-harassment-metoo-tech-startup)
and on the experiences of friends and colleagues.

## 1. Insist on a record of all conversations

The biggest mistake you can make is to assume good faith on the part of those
who fired you.  In most jurisdictions you have a right to record any phone calls
you are part of, and if that feels too confrontational, insist on communicating
by email.  If they insist on communicating by phone or video call, follow up
immediately with an email summary and make sure you send a copy to your personal
account.

## 2. Pause before speaking, posting, or tweeting

If possible, have someone you trust look everything over before you say it or
send it.  (Don't use someone who still works for the company, even if they are
your closest friend: it puts them in a legally and morally difficult position.)

## 3. Keep your public statements brief

People may care, but most won't care as much as you do.  A simple recitation of
facts is usually damning enough.

## 4. If you want to correct something online, add a timestamped amendment

Do not just take down or edit anything you have written.  If you do, you will be
accused of rewriting history, and muddied waters only help whoever fired you.
(Also, be prepared for them to dig through everything you've ever said online
and re-post parts selectively to discredit you.)

## 5. Speak directly to all the issues rather than omitting or ignoring things you'd rather not discuss

Your honesty is your greatest asset, and it's hypocritical to criticize your
opponents for spin or selective reporting if you're doing it too.

## 6. Don't sign any agreement that might prevent you from speaking about moral or legal concerns

And make sure the agreement explicitly excludes your concerns before signing it.
(Yes, it's very privileged of me to be able to say this: someone whose
immigration status, essential health benefits, or family income is being
threatened may not have a choice.  That is why I think people who do have a
choice also have an obligation to fight.)

## 7. Don't cite the law unless your lawyer tells you to

It probably doesn't mean what you think it means, and they almost certainly do
have lawyers on their side who will seize on any mis-statement or mistake you
make.

## 8. Don't try to get them to acknowledge that they were wrong

This probably wouldn't have happened if they were the sort of people who could.

## 9. Go for long walks, cook some healthy meals, pick up the guitar you haven't touched in year

Do anything that requires you to focus on something else for a while.  This
isn't just for your mental health: exhausted people make poor decisions, and you
need to be at the top of your game.

## 10. Remember that it's OK to cry

Because we all do.
